---
title: FAQ for the text generation feature in AI Builder
description: This FAQ provides information about the AI technology used in the text generation model, along with key considerations and details about how the AI is used, how it was tested and evaluated, and any specific limitations.
ms.date: 07/25/2023
ms.custom: 
  - responsible-ai-faqs
ms.topic: article
author: phil-cmd
ms.author: plarrue
ms.reviewer: angieandrews
---

# FAQ for the text generation feature in AI Builder

These frequently asked questions (FAQ) describe the AI impact of AI Builder's text generation feature.

## What is text generation?

The text generation feature in AI Builder offers you a versatile toolset for developing AI-powered workflows and applications. It allows you to create workflows and applications that summarize documents, create draft responses, classify text, and translate languages. This capability is powered by the Azure OpenAI Service, which utilizes Generative Pre-trained Transformer (GPT) technology. These models have been trained on vast amounts of text data, enabling them to generate text that resembles human-written content.

## What are text generation’s capabilities?

You can use the AI Builder text generation capability for an array of tasks that involve creating text, summarizing, or categorizing content, and more. Makers can leverage some of the predefined templates, or they can craft their own prompts to build uniquely new applications and workflows. User prompts instruct the model to use the user-provided instruction and data context in the flow to perform a text generation task.

## What is text generation’s intended use?

The Text generation model in AI Builder empowers you to build intelligent applications and workflows. The feature leverages the capabilities of pretrained models, which eliminates the need for customer model training. For example, the intent might be to build a workflow that summarizes incoming customer complaints and create a ticket in an incident management tool, based on the category of the incoming complaint. In this example, makers can simply instruct the model to categorize and summarize the incoming complaint to create a new incident.

The following list of use cases shows the most popular use of this service:

- Summarization of emails, conversations, transcripts, documents, and more.
- Suggestions of draft responses to customer queries, complaints, email, and more.
- Extraction of information from contract, emails, invoice, orders, and more.
- Classification of content in desired categories, for example, whether an email is an order, complaint, or a return.
- Sentiment analysis of a given text, for example, identifying sentiment of a product review.

In these cases, you're responsible for the final outcome of the system and are required to review the generated content for any potential inaccuracies of incompleteness prior to using it.

## How was the text generation feature evaluated? What metrics are used to measure performance?

The evaluation of the text generation feature involves comprehensive testing across a range of safety parameters. This ensures that the feature aligns with our organization's responsible AI standards and principles. The service is also continually assessed for potential vulnerabilities. The performance metrics we use primarily involve two metrics: the efficiency of content filtration, and the degree of agreement between human and machine on filtered versus unfiltered content.

## What are the limitations of text generation? How can users minimize the impact of the text generation limitations when using the system?

 The usage of this technology must be in accordance with requirements in the [Code of conduct for Azure OpenAI Service](/legal/cognitive-services/openai/code-of-conduct). This technology must not be used for generating content associated with political propaganda, hate speech, misinformation, self-harm, discrimination, explicit sexual material, or other content prohibited by the Code of Conduct. Unsupported applications of this technology include providing advice, use for legal, financial, health-related guidance, or future predictions, and financial, scientific, or mathematical calculations. Currently, the service is exclusively supported in the United States and is available only in the English language.

AI-generated content can have mistakes, hence makers should inform end users of their solution that the content generation by this model is created by AI in a transparent way. Clear communication of AI-generated content helps in avoiding overreliance. Makers should also infuse the possibility of a human review step to make sure that the AI-generated content is accurate and appropriate before using it.

## What operational factors and settings allow for effective and responsible use of the system?

Content generated by the AI model is probabilistic in nature, and hence model responses could vary for the same prompt. The response generated might be incorrect or misleading and could cause unintended outcomes from the flow or app. For example, business customers might receive wrong or incorrect information, recommendations, or support. Makers should implement meaningful human oversight within their flows and apps, and test their prompts for the potential to lead to generating harmful behaviors or prohibited content as listed in the Microsoft Code of Conduct. Low-code developers should also be transparent about the use of AI in their apps and flows to inform the business user, indicating that the content is generated by AI. Additionally, generated responses may not match low code developer’s expectations due to length restrictions, content filtering, or model selection.

## See also

[Text generation model overview (preview)](prebuilt-azure-openai.md)

[!INCLUDE[footer-include](./includes/footer-banner.md)]