---
title: Use the image description prebuilt model in Power Automate (preview)
description: Learn how to use the image description prebuilt AI model in Power Automate.
author: phil-cmd
contributors:
  - phil-cmd
  - v-aangie
ms.topic: conceptual
ms.collection: get-started
ms.date: 09/21/2023
ms.author: plarrue
ms.reviewer: angieandrews
ms.custom: bap-template
---

# Use the image description prebuilt model in Power Automate (preview)

[!INCLUDE[cc_beta-prerelease-disclaimer](./includes/cc-beta-prerelease-disclaimer.md)]

The image description prebuilt model analyzes an image and generates a user-friendly description based on its visual features.

[!INCLUDE[cc_preview_features_definition](./includes/cc-preview-features-definition.md)]

## Create an image description flow

With Power Automate, you can create a flow that generates a description.

1. Sign in to [Power Automate](https://make.powerautomate.com/).
1. On the left navigation pane, select **My flows** > **New flow** > **Instant cloud flow**.
1. In the **Flow name** field, name your flow.
1. In the **Choose how to trigger this flow** field, select **Manually trigger a flow** > **Create**.
1. Expand **Manually trigger a flow**, and then select **Add an input** > **File**.
1. Select **New step** > **AI Builder** > **Generate description of an image (preview)**.
1. Select the **Image** field, and then select **File Content** from the **Dynamic content** list.

    :::image type="content" source="media/flow-image-description/file-content-dynamic-content-list.png" alt-text="Screenshot of the AI Builder action, 'Generate description of an image..":::

In the successive actions, you can use any columns extracted by the AI Builder model. For example, you can use **Get my profile (V2)** and use **Send an email (V2)**. The output of the **Image description generated** email is generated for you.

:::image type="content" source="media/flow-image-description/send-an-email-image-generated.png" alt-text="Screenshot of 'Get my profile' and send an email action.":::

Congratulations! You've created a flow that uses the **image description (preview)** model. You can continue to build on this flow until it suits your needs. 

## Test your flow

1. On the upper-right, select **Save** > **Test**.
1. Select an image from your local device, and then select **Import**.

    You should receive an email similar to the following example.

    Congratulations John! Your Power Automate flow ran successfully. Here is the description generated by the AI Builder **image description** model:

    `Description: a helicopter flying over a city (confidence of the description: 0.5313331484794617)`

    `Tags:
    ["building","outdoor","city"]`
