---
title: Model selection and temperature settings
description: Learn about the settings parameter in prompt builder.
author: Phil-cmd
contributors:
  - Phil-cmd
  - Antoine2F
  - v-aangie
ms.topic: conceptual
ms.date: 09/03/2024
ms.author: plarrue
ms.reviewer: angieandrews
---

# Model selection and temperature settings

When you create a prompt action in prompt builder, the panel on the right includes a **Settings** section. This section allows you to set these parameters:

- Version of the generative AI model
- Temperature

This article explores the impact of these parameters.

## Generative AI model versions

The dropdown menu allows you to select among the generative AI models, which generate the answer to your custom prompt.

The default model as of Nov 2024, is GPT 4o Mini (GA). It's possible to also use the more power GPT 4o model (GA). These exact minor versions of these models are subject to change.

When prompt actions are used in Power Apps or Power Automate, they consume AI Builder credits.

Note: Older prompts created in prompt builder relying on this default model GPT 3.5 model has been or will be auto-upgraded to GPT 4o Mini model. Government cloud will continue to use GPT 3.5 model until the end of November, 2024.

### Choose a model

Choose between the models based on status and licensing rules.

|GPT model  |Status   |Licensing rules   | Functionalities| Region availabilities |
|---------|---------|---------|---------|---------|---------|
|GPT 4o Mini | GA - Default model	| Consumes credits in Power Apps and Power Automate. More information: [Power Platform Licensing Guide](https://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/?linkid=2085130)  | Trained on data up to Decemver 2023. Context allowed up to 128k tokens. | [Feature availability by regions for prompts](availability-region.md)
| GPT 4 | GA | Consumes credits in Power Apps and Power Automate. More information: [Power Platform Licensing Guide](https://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/?linkid=2085130)  | GPT 4o has knowledge up to October 2023 and has a context length of 128k tokens. | [Feature availability by regions for prompts](availability-region.md)|

Choose between the model based on capabilities and scenarios.
# Comparison of GPT-4o Mini and GPT-4o

| Factors                     | GPT-4o Mini                          | GPT-4o                               |
|---------------------------|--------------------------------------|--------------------------------------|
| **Cost**                  | Lower, more cost-effective           | Higher, premium pricing              |
| **Performance**           | Good for most tasks                  | Superior for complex tasks           |
| **Speed**                 | Faster processing                     | May be slower due to complexity      |
| **Use Cases**             | Summarization, information tasks | Complex data analysis, reasoning and content creation tasks |


## Decision Narrative

Choose GPT-4o Mini when you need a cost-effective solution for moderately complex tasks, have limited computational resources, or require faster processing. It's ideal for projects with budget constraints and applications like customer support or efficient code analysis.

Opt for GPT-4o when dealing with highly complex, multimodal tasks that require superior performance and detailed analysis. It's the better choice for large-scale projects where accuracy and advanced capabilities are crucial, and when you have the budget and computational resources to support it. GPT-4o is also preferable for long-term projects that may grow in complexity over time.

### Use of AI prompts in context of Microsoft Copilot Studio

AI prompts don't consume AI Builder credits when in the context of Copilot Studio, but consume messages when they're built on a GA GPT model.

Learn more about message consumption in the [Power Platform Licensing Guide](https://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/?linkid=2085130).

## Temperature

The slider allows you to select the temperature of the generative AI model. It varies between 0 and 1, and guides the generative AI model about how much creativity (1) vs deterministic answer (0) it should provide.

Temperature is a parameter that controls the randomness of the output generated by the AI model. A lower temperature results in more predictable and conservative outputs. To compare, a higher temperature allows for more creativity and diversity in the responses. It’s a way to fine-tune the balance between randomness and determinism in the model’s output.

By default, the temperature is 0, as in previously created prompts.

|Temperature  |Functionality| Use in|
|---------|---------|---------|
|0| More predictable and conservative outputs.<br>Responses are more consistent.| Prompts that require high accuracy and less variability.|
|1| More creativity and diversity in the responses. <br> More varied and sometimes more innovative responses.| Prompts that create new out-of-the-box content |

While adjusting the temperature can influence the model’s output, it doesn’t guarantee a specific result. The AI’s responses are inherently probabilistic and can vary even with the same temperature setting.

