---
title: Use a custom prompt in a flow (preview)
description: Learn how to use a custom prompt in a flow.
author: phil-cmd
contributors:
  - phil-cmd
  - v-aangie
ms.topic: conceptual
ms.collection: get-started
ms.date: 11/14/2023
ms.author: plarrue
ms.reviewer: angieandrews
---

# Use a custom prompt in a flow (preview)

[!INCLUDE [cc-beta-prerelease-disclaimer](./includes/cc-beta-prerelease-disclaimer.md)]

> [!IMPORTANT]
> - This is a preview feature.
> - Preview features aren’t meant for production use and may have restricted functionality. These features are available before an official release so that customers can get early access and provide feedback.
> - As we traverse this rapidly evolving field, we are dedicated to refining and improving our services based on user feedback and insights. We encourage developers to be cognizant of the risks and incorporate human review when utilizing this capability.

## Prerequisite

You've created custom prompts.

## Create a flow

1. Sign in to [Power Automate](https://make.powerautomate.com/).
1. Select **+Create** > **Instant cloud flow**.
1. Name the flow **Task ID**.
1. Select **Manually trigger a flow** > **Create**.
1. In the designer, select **manually trigger a flow**.

## Configure the parameters

1. On the **Parameters** tab to the left, select **+Add an input**.
1. Select **Text**, and then enter a name.  
1. In the designer, select **+Insert a new step** after **Manually trigger a flow** > **Add an action**.
1. On the left pane in the **Search** field, select **GPT** > **Create text with GPT (V2)**.

    :::image type="content" source="media/use-a-custom-prompt/gpt-parameters.png" alt-text="Screenshot of a prompt test.":::

1. On the left pane in the **Name** field, choose your custom prompt from the dropdown menu.

    The following example uses **Task Identifier** as the custom prompt. Task Identifier is a custom prompt that has been previously built.

    :::image type="content" source="media/use-a-custom-prompt/custom-prompt.png" alt-text="Screenshot of a prompt test.":::

1. On the left pane in the **Input Text** field, select **Input** Text from the Dynamic content list to the right.
1. In the designer after the **Create text with GPT (V2)** card, select **+Insert a new step** > **Add an action**,
1. On the left pane in the **Search** field, enter **Approvals*.
1. To the right of the **Approvals** heading, select **See More** > **Start and wait for an approval of text**.
1. In the **Title** field, enter a title.
1. In the **Suggested Text** field, select **Text** from the dynamic content list. 
1. In the **Assigned To** field, enter an email address.
Select + Insert a new step after Start and for an approval of text > Select Add an action 

On the left pane > Search the control Condition 

 

A screenshot of a computer

Description automatically generated 

Select Parameters 

In Choose Value > Select Outcome from the dynamic content list  

In is equal to > Type Approve 

A screenshot of a computer

Description automatically generated 

 

 

 

 

 

 

In the True Condition of the flow > Select + Insert a new step after Condition-actions > Select Add an action 

On the left pane > Search Teams > Select Post message in a chat or channel 

In Post as > Select Flow bot 

In Post in > Select chat with flow bot 

In Recipient > <Enter an email address> 

In Message > Select Accepted text from the dynamic content list 

Select > Save 

## Test your flow

At the right top corner > Select Test 

Select Manually > Select Test 

In Input > Enter your text > Select Run flow 

## Ensure quality output with human oversight 

 

By having a human in the loop, organizations can harness the efficiency and capabilities of AI while ensuring the output is of high quality, aligns with ethical standards, and meets specific requirements. This combination of AI and human oversight optimizes processes and enhances overall outcomes. 

 

From the left pane > Select Approvals > Select the tab Received  

Open the request “Task Identifier” to review the text generated by AI > Choose your response > Select Approve  

Select Confirm 

 

A screenshot of a computer

Description automatically generated 

 

Outputs 

 

There are numerous potential outcomes to consider, including those related to email, data operation with Compose, Dataverse, Teams, and more. In this scenario, we will explore the result using the Teams connector. 

 

A close-up of a message

Description automatically generated 

### See also

[Human review for automation with the text generation model (preview)](azure-openai-human-review.md)