---
title: Use your custom prompt in Power Apps (preview)
description: Learn how to use your custom prompt in Power Apps.
author: phil-cmd
contributors:
  - phil-cmd
  - v-aangie
ms.topic: conceptual
ms.collection: get-started
ms.date: 11/14/2023
ms.author: plarrue
ms.reviewer: angieandrews
---

# Use your custom prompt in Power Apps (preview)

[!INCLUDE [cc-beta-prerelease-disclaimer](./includes/cc-beta-prerelease-disclaimer.md)]

A custom prompt in Power Apps empowers makers to incorporate existing prompts into their apps.

Once you've created and tested your prompts using the prompt builder, you can use them within your application by calling them through Power Fx Functions.
Custom prompts can be invoked as Power Fx function calls, this allows you to seamlessly integrate AI capabilities into your application. 

> [!IMPORTANT]
> - This is a preview feature.
> - Preview features aren’t meant for production use and may have restricted functionality. These features are available before an official release so that customers can get early access and provide feedback.
> - As we traverse this rapidly evolving field, we are dedicated to refining and improving our services based on user feedback and insights. We encourage developers to be cognizant of the risks and incorporate human review when utilizing this capability.

## Prerequisite

You've created a custom prompt.

## Create an app and configure it

To use a prompt as a Power Fx Function, you simply need to call it by its name, and pass any required arguments. The function will then return the response generated by the prompt, which can be used within your application as needed. This straightforward approach allows you to leverage the power of AI without needing to write complex code.

1. Sign in to [Power Apps](https://make.powerapps.com/).
1. Select **+Create** > **Blank app** > **Create**.
1. In the **App name** field, enter **Task ID**.
1. Under the **Format** heading, select **Phone**.
1. Select **Create**.
1. On the left pane, select **Data** > **+Add Data** > *your custom prompt*.

    The following example shows the custom prompt, **Task identifier**.

    :::image type="content" source="media/use-a-custom-prompt-in-app/add-data-source.png" alt-text="Screenshot of adding an app that uses a custom prompt.":::

1. On the menu at the top of the page, do the following:
    1. Select **+Insert** > **Text input**.
    1. Select **+Insert** > **Button**.
    1. Select **+Insert** > **Text label**.
1. Resize **Text input** and **Text label** accordingly.
1. On the left pane, select **Button1** > **OnSelect** (the property).
1. In the formula bar, enter `Set(result, 'Task identifier'.Predict(TextInput1.Text));`

    :::image type="content" source="media/use-a-custom-prompt-in-app/insert-menu.png" alt-text="Screenshot of adding data and a data source to your prompt.":::

1. On the left pane, Select **label1** > **Text** (the property).
1. In the formula bar, enter result.text 
1. Select **Save**.

## Test your app

1. On the menu at the top of the page, select the play button.
1. Enter your text in the **Text input** screen.
1. Check the AI Text generated in the text label.

### See also

[Human review for automation with the text generation model (preview)](azure-openai-human-review.md)
